# Face-Reconization
For this project, we will be using Python programming language along with two other libraries that are OpenCV and NumPy. We will start by importing the libraries. If you haven't already installed these libraries you can install them using the pip command. Just open your command prompt, paste the below command, hit enter and wait for the libraries to be installed. pip install OpenCV-python You can either use the camera of your laptop or use some video for this project. The first step will be to capture the video file or start the video, in case you are using your laptop camera. Then we have to define the region which we want to protect. For this, we will create a click_event function. This function will allow you to select a rectangular region in the frame. The user has to first click left at the point of start L1 and drag the pointer to the end of the portion L2. By default, we will take the whole frame, so, you can leave this parameter if you want just by pressing any key to continue. you can observe that we used OpenCV mouse events to create the region of interest. We used a flag object "draw" that determines the state of the mouse pointer. When the state is 1, it means the user is drawing the region of interest and once he is done, the state comes back to 0 again, allowing the user to recreate the region of interest. We allocated the coordinates of the region of interest as a global variable so that we could use those values in the later section of our code.

We will start reading the frames of the video as you can see in the below snippet of code. We will take two consecutive frames of the video and focus on the portion of the frame or the region of interest that we defined in step 1. Using an RGB image for this task may not be very helpful and will make the process slower. So, we will convert these frames to grayscale images. After that, we will check if there is any change in these two consecutive frames. We can calculate these changes by using the absdiff() function of OpenCV. The absdiff() function will return the difference between the two frames. The next step will be to extract the masked image of this different image which will contain either white or black pixels. For that, we can use image thresholding. The white pixels denote the change in the frames whereas the black portion of the image denotes similarity in the two frames. As these changes could be very sharp and might contain several breaks between them, hence they might be hard to detect in some cases. So, we will use some image processing techniques to rectify the problem. We will use the Gaussian blur technique to smoothen the image and dilate the image to fill the gaps between the white-masked images. After performing the image processing, our masked image looks After this, we will calculate the area of these individual white segments in the image. To calculate the area of these white segments, we will use the find contours method of OpenCV. This method will extract the boundary points. You can see these contours by using the draw contours function of OpenCV. Further, we can feed these points to the contour area function which will give us the area of each contour. We can ignore minute changes as they might just be noise. For that, we will define a threshold area. If the contour size is less than this threshold area (900 in our case), we will ignore that contour and otherwise. To show that we have detected the intrusion, we can surround the contour with a green bounding box. We can even use a buzzer to alarm the owner. Consider it as an assignment to implement the buzzer alarm in this project. There are several libraries you can use for that like win sound and beeps.
